The first thing I'm going to do is make sure that Kafka and Spark are running.
I'm going to type ps -ef.
I see Spark running once and twice.
I also see several Java processes which tells me that Kafka is working.
The next thing I'm going to do is actually connect to Redis.
I can see that Redis is running right here, so that's a good sign.
I'm going to say /data/redis/redis-stable/src/redis-cli
and -a which is for my password,
which is not a very good password.
Now, I'm going to do keys.
That tells me all the tables that I have right now.
I'm going to just do a simple set operation, testkey testvalue.
Now, the cool thing is,
I'm not going to hit "Enter" yet.
I want to show you something.
Because we have a Kafka source for Redis setup,
what that means is that all the data we write to Redis shows up in a topic.
Let's go connect to that topic.
I'm going to cd to data/kafka/bin.
If I ls, I can do kafka-console-consumer, with dot slash.
I want to say, bootstrap-server localhost:9092,
the topic is redis-server.
That's the topic that we configured in the Kafka source connector.
It's putting all the Redis data into that topic,
because we configured it to and I want it from the beginning.
I'll see a bunch of data from Redis,
and there it goes by.
Most of these keys are pretty large,
so this represents an application in use.
All of the stuff coming through here,
it's like a live application being used.
This is what it would look like.
When I do set testkey,
that's putting the key as testkey and my value as testvalue in Redis.
As you see things scrolling by here,
you're going to see keys that are Base64 encoded.
Let's see what testkey looks like in Base64 format.
I'm going to create a new terminal.
Let's say, echo testkey,
pipe it to Base64,
and that's what it looks like.
Testkey in Base64 looks like this.
When I set this and come over to the topic,
I should see that key.
I'm going to do it pretty quick and then I'm going to break out of
this console consumer so we can check it.
I'm going to hit "Enter" here,
and then I'm going to break over here.
Let's see. The keys will be dGVzdGtleQ0.
Testkey dGVzdGtleQ.
What's interesting is,
that doesn't have the last 0 in it.
But if I echo it and pipe it to base64 -d,
sure enough, it comes back as testkey.
That shows us that
the Redis Kafka source connector is working and when I put data into Redis,
it comes out in my topic.